PRODCONS/Report.md, before:

# CS471 Spring 2024: PRODCONS Report

## Seth Groves

### Overview

For the PRODCON portion of this assignment, we were to tackle the producer-consumer problem. Given a shared buffer, I was to create an object that consisted of sales date, storeID, the register number, and the sale amount.

From the described requirements, I created four classes, and a main driver as follows:

1. `ProducerClass.py`  
    Responsible for producing a `sale` which is a dictonary that contains `sale_date`, `store_id`, `register_number`, and `sale_amount`. Per the instructions, Producer will generate 500 sale records.

2. `ConsumerClass.py`  
    The `ConsumerClass` is directly responsible for take `sales` from the buffer to compute the `local_stats` of the `sale_records` to append to the `GlobalStats` and also provide calculation for the `local_stats` too.

3. `SharedBuffer.py`  
    This class is directly responsible for adding and removing of records, checking the buffer capacity, and also providing the items produced.

4. `GlobalStats.py`  
    Per the name, this class is directly with providing the `storewide` `month` and `aggregate` total of the sales per the instructions of the project. This has a method to append incoming totals to the overall total, and utilizes the use of Python decorators (`@property`) to ensure that the values are appended in a thread-safe manner.

5. `Main.py`  
    The Driver file, `main.py`, is directly responsible for creating instances from each class to use in conjunction. This is also where `producers` and `consumers` are explicitly started as different threads.

---

### Issues I Ran Into

#### 1. Race Issue

![first issue](/PRODCONS/ReportResources/1.png)

 When I ran the program after I had fixed some minor issues with how I was calling `GlobalStats`, I noticed that the `ProducerClass` seemed to be producing way more entries than I needed. I added a counter to the `run` function, and to no surprise, it seemed that there was a race condition. As the iterations got closer to 500, it became more erratic and as expected, went over 500 iterations.

Commit message:

- Refactor StoreSimulation, ConsumerClass, Main - Change and store_total month_total to be dict, add functionality in GlobalStats to handle - Add special flag handling to Consumer and Store to report all records as read -Update Report and README

PRODCONS/Report.md, after:

# CS471 Spring 2024: PRODCONS Report

## Seth Groves

## Link to PROD CON OUTPUT FILE: [PRODCON](PRODCONOutput.txt)

## Findings

During the implementation and countless hours of debugigng, I worked out several issues were identified and resolved:

    Incorrect calculation of sale month in local statistics
    Duplicate updates of global statistics
    Incorrect month-wise total sales calculation
    Adjustments needed for updating global statistics with month-wise totals

After addressing these issues, the program produced accurate local and global statistics for each combination of producers and consumers.

For the sake of keeping this document organized, I have attached the PRODCON output [here](PRODCONOutput.txt) and at the top of the page, instead of directly in this file to keep the length down.


## Conclusion

 I successfully implemented a solution to the producer-consumer problem in a retail chain scenario -- the program effectively handled different combinations of producers and consumers, providing detailed local and global sales statistics. After flattening all the bugs out, being able to see how the shared buffer ensured thread safety and smooth communication between producers and consumers was rewarding after several and several hours put into it. This project serves as a hands-on example of how the producer-consumer pattern can be applied to solve real-world challenges. It showcases the importance of meticulous design, effective synchronization mechanisms, and seamless data sharing in concurrent systems.
